P2PXWiki - Summer of Code Project (Summer 2005) 

Author: Bikash Agarwalla
Contact: bikash.agarwalla@gmail.com
Mentor: Ludovic Dubost (XWiki)

Status: Completed on Sep 15 2005


1. Building the project: 
   Open the project in eclipse. Adjust the classpath to include libraries 
from xwiki (dont include jdom-1.0.jar - there is a conflict). 


2. Installation:
    There is an eclipse project file and classpath included with this, it has 
been used successfully to compile the source. However, the files needs to be 
copied in the respective directories of the xwiki source code in order for it 
to work. The libraries in the lib directory need to be included in the 
build path of xwiki. 

3. Status 
 a) Includes APIs to update the central registry. Note that PowerDNS needs to 
 be separately installed and configured to serve data from a database. 
 b) Includes JXTA-XMLRPC calls in line with XWiki XML-RPC calls. Includes both 
server and client side APIs of existing XWiki XML-RPC calls. 
 c) Includes Functional P2PXWikiRegistry APIs to update the DNS from a 
client through the JXTA network. The demo "P2PXWikiRegistryDemo.{htm,pdf}" 
demonstrates some screenshots of P2PXWikiRegistry in action !
 d) Includes Functional P2PXWikiReplication APIs to replicate a complete wiki 
from one peer to another peer ! There are advanced (more powerful) APIs to get 
only recently modified documents from a peer wiki instead of replicating the 
complete wiki. The implementation handles merging non conflicting changes 
while doing replication. 

4. Release
 The release directory contains a functional jar that is used for the demo. It 
 has both the the p2pxwikiregistry and the p2pxwiki replication and has been 
 used successfully with "resin" for the demo.

5. Demo 
 Some screenshots demonstrating P2PXWiki capabilities have been included.
 a) P2PXWikiRegistryDemo.{htm,pdf,wnk} : Demonstrates the use of APIs to 
 query and update the P2PXWiki central registry using JXTA.
 b) P2PXWikiReplicationDemo.{htm,pdf,wnk}: Demonstrates the use of replication 
 APIs to replicate a wiki from one peer to another peer. 
 c) P2PXWikiAdvanceReplicationDemo.{htm,pdf,wnk}: Demonstrates the more powerful
 capability of P2PXWikiReplication including merging nonconflicting changes 
 and getting only recently modified documents for replication. 

6. Docs 
  P2PXWiki architecture documentations included with this release are as 
  follows:  
    a. pdfs of discussion in http://www.xwiki.org/xwiki/bin/view/Dev/P2PXWiki 
    b. Jira tasks discussions 
  

7. Immediate Future 
 a) Separating the registry from the replication into multiple different 
    releases so that there is only one central registry and all the peers 
    can use the replication and the registry client side apis. 
 b) Handling conflict resolution in case of conflicting updates in 
    P2PXWikiReplication
 c) Automatic redirection from to a local replica or the central registry wiki 
    or a peer replica. 
 d) Automatic updates of wiki addresses at the central registry as there is 
    change in IP addresses of master peer of a wiki.
 e) Firewall traversal that allows a wiki to be accessed from a webpage (by 
    possibly using the p2psockets (http://p2psockets.jxta.org/) proxy server 
    or paper airplane firefox plugin (http://www.paperairplane.us/)
 f) A client application that uses p2pxwiki apis to allow "one-click" 
    replication, registry updates, peer discovery, wiki discovery and so on.. 
    The myjxta project (http://myjxta.jxta.org/) may be of help here.

 For more information, look at the architecture discussions in the "docs" 
directory or contact the author ! 
